.TH POLYGLOT-FFI 1 "2025-10-23" "v0.4.0" "Polyglot FFI Manual"
.SH NAME
polyglot-ffi \- Automatic FFI bindings generator for polyglot projects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B polyglot-ffi
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B polyglot-ffi
automatically generates Foreign Function Interface (FFI) bindings between
programming languages. It parses source language interface files and generates
complete FFI bindings including type descriptions, C stubs, and target language
wrappers.
.PP
Currently supports OCaml → Python bindings generation, with plans for Rust,
Go, and bidirectional bindings.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Initialize a new polyglot FFI project
.TP
.B generate
Generate FFI bindings from interface files
.TP
.B check
Validate project configuration and dependencies
.TP
.B clean
Remove generated FFI binding files
.TP
.B watch
Watch for changes and auto-regenerate bindings
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help message and exit
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version number and exit
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Suppress all output except errors
.SH FILES
.TP
.B polyglot.toml
Project configuration file. See \fBpolyglot-ffi-config\fR(5) for format details.
.TP
.B .polyglot/
Directory containing generated bindings and build artifacts
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Initialize a new project:
.EX
$ polyglot-ffi init my-project --lang python
.EE
.TP
Generate bindings from an OCaml interface file:
.EX
$ polyglot-ffi generate crypto.mli --output generated/
.EE
.TP
Check project configuration and dependencies:
.EX
$ polyglot-ffi check
.EE
.TP
Clean generated files:
.EX
$ polyglot-ffi clean --dry-run
.EE
.TP
Watch for changes and auto-regenerate:
.EX
$ polyglot-ffi watch
.EE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B POLYGLOT_FFI_CONFIG
Override default config file location
.TP
.B POLYGLOT_FFI_OUTPUT
Override default output directory
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
General error (parse error, generation error, etc.)
.TP
.B 2
Configuration error
.TP
.B 3
Validation error
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR polyglot-ffi-init (1),
.BR polyglot-ffi-generate (1),
.BR polyglot-ffi-check (1),
.BR polyglot-ffi-clean (1),
.BR polyglot-ffi-watch (1),
.BR polyglot-ffi-config (5)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/chizy7/polyglot-ffi/issues
.SH AUTHORS
Written by the Polyglot FFI contributors.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2025 Polyglot FFI Contributors.
License: MIT License
.SH NOTES
This tool eliminates the tedious boilerplate of manual FFI binding generation,
allowing developers to focus on building amazing polyglot applications.
